.\" rsdplay.1:

.TH "RSDPLAY" "1" "April 2010" "RSound" "System Manager's Manual: rsdplay"

.SH NAME

rsdplay \- Simple PCM audio player for librsound

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBrsdplay\fR hostname [OPTIONS]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

\fBrsdplay\fR is a simple program designed to stream raw PCM audio, or valid RIFF wave files to an RSound server, using \fBlibrsound\fR. It primarily recieves audio data from \fBstdin\fR.

.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB--help, -h\fR
Prints help text.

.TP
\fB--server HOSTNAME, -s HOSTNAME\fR
More explicit way of assigning hostname.

.TP
\fB--port PORT, -p PORT\fR
Defines which port to connect to. Defaults to \fB12345\fR.

.TP
\fB--raw\fR
Treats input data as raw PCM. Parameters like sample format, audio channels and sample rate will need to be set using \fB--bits\fR, \fB--channels\fR and \fB--rate\fR respectively.

.TP
\fB--bits FORMAT, -B FORMAT\fR
Defines which sample format raw PCM should be treated as. Possible values are: \fBS16LE\fR, \fBS16BE\fR, \fBU16LE\fR, \fBU16BE\fR, \fBS8\fR, \fBU8\fR, \fBALAW\fR, \fBMULAW\fR, \fBS32LE\fR, \fBS32BE\fR, \fBU32LE\fR, \fBU32BE\fR, \fB8\fR and \fB16\fR. 8 and 16 are equal to the U8 and S16LE formats respectively. Defaults to \fBS16LE\fR. Requires \fB--raw\fR to be set.

.TP
\fB--channels CHANNELS, -c CHANNELS\fR
Defines the number of audio channels in a raw PCM stream. Defaults to \fB2\fR (stereo). Requires \fB--raw\fR to be set.

.TP
\fB--rate RATE, -r RATE\fR
Defines the sample rate of a raw input stream. Requires \fB--raw\fR to be set.

.TP
\fB--file FILE, -f FILE\fR
Uses FILE as input source, rather than \fBstdin\fR.

.TP
\fB--identity TAG, -i TAG\fR
Defines TAG as identity string for rsdplay. Defaults to "rsdplay".

.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"

.TP
\fBRSD_SERVER\fR
When no hostname is explicitly stated on the command line, \fBRSD_SERVER\fR will be used if it is defined.

.TP
\fBRSD_PORT\fR
When no port is explicitly stated on the command line, \fBRSD_PORT\fR will be used for TCP connections if it is defined.

.SH "AUTHORS"
Hans-Kristian Arntzen - <maister@archlinux.us>

.SH "BUGS"
If you find a bug, please report it to the mailing list: <\fBrsound@lists.keep-cool.org\fR>. To subscribe to the list, visit \fBhttp://lists.keep-cool.org/mailman/listinfo/rsound\fR.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBrsd\fR(1)

.\"
